
Download and install the Timex FamilyConnect app from the Google Play Store app or Apple App Store app.
Open the app on your phone or tablet, then tap CREATE ACCOUNT.
Enter your name, email address, and create a password, then tap NEXT.
Tap the + icon to add a profile picture to your account.
Enter your phone number and tap NEXT. It does not need to be a T-Mobile number.
Check your email and click the link to confirm and grant consent to data collection.
Go back into the app and tap AGREE to agree to the privacy policy.
If prompted, allow the app access to your location.
Tap ADD WATCH to add a watch.

Charge the Timex FamilyConnect watch and power it on.
In the Timex FamilyConnect app, tap ADD WATCH. If you already have an existing watch on your account, tap the Menu icon with three lines and tap Family View.
Tap the + icon to add a profile picture of the watch user.
Enter the watch user's information, then tap NEXT.
Tap the watch screen to view the notice about downloading the app, then tap Next to view the QR code.
In the app, tap NEXT and scan the QR code on the watch.
You can also manually type the phone number in and tap NEXT.
Tap INFO on the watch to see information like your connected network or IMEI.


Enter the 8 character alpha-numeric code on the watch screen into the app, then tap NEXT > CONTINUE.
Tap ADD WATCH TO CONTACTS to add the watch phone number to your contacts. Then tap START USING.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View and choose the desired watch at the top of the screen.
Tap the Settings gear, then tap Device Settings.
Tap Remove Device from the App > OK.

In the Timex FamilyConnect app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap All Contacts to view the current contacts in the Virtual Secure Private Network.
Tap on a contact to edit it, or tap the + icon to add a new contact.
Enter the contact information, like name, phone number, and email address. It must be a US phone number, international won't work.
Tap the + icon to take a picture or add a photo of the contact.
Choose the account type:
Guardian: Make & receive calls to the watch, send & receive messages, and track the watch location.
Contact: Only allowed to make and receive calls from the watch. Can't message or track.


If you have multiple watches, turn the switch on next to the watch you want to add the contact to.
Tap the Check Mark at the top to save the contact.

In the Timex FamilyConnect app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap All Contacts to view the current contacts in the Virtual Secure Private Network.
Tap on a contact, then tap Delete Contact.

SOS Emergency Button
Microphone
Speaker
Power
Long press to turn device on or off
Short press to turn LC on or off, or to go to the Home screen


LCD
Wristband
Charging contact

On the home screen, swipe right and tap Settings > Sound.
Tap Sound Mode and choose from the following:
Sound
Vibrate
Mute


Tap Volume to adjust the following settings:
Ringtone
Call
Media






Tap the watch face to bring up your apps, then tap the Phone icon.
Tap the Contacts icon at the top right to view the Virtual Secure Private Network of contacts.
Tap the contact you want to call. You can only call members of the Virtual Secure Private Network.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View to see the watch on a map.
Tap CALL WATCH to call the watch.
The app will open your phone app and call the watch.
If the phone number isn't one of the contacts, the call will be automatically forwarded to voicemail without ringing.
You can't access voicemail from the watch and won't get notifications.



Press and hold the SOS button to the left of the watch for five seconds.
A call will go directly from the watch to the primary contact / guardian. You must be the primary contact to receive the SOS call.
An Instant Message notification will go out to the primary contact and all other designated guardians.

Tap the watch screen to bring up your apps, then tap Phone.
Tap the Contacts icon on the top right, and scroll to the bottom.
Tap Call 911 Emergency Only. On the confirmation screen, tap Yes.

Tap the watch screen to bring up your apps, then tap Messages.
If you already have a conversation going, tap the message thread. If not, tap Contacts on the top right, choose the contact.
Scroll to the bottom and tap Message.
Choose from the list preset messages, or tap the keyboard to enter your own, then tap Send.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Messages and choose the device you want to message.
Enter your message to send, then tap the Send icon.

Tap the watch screen to bring up your apps, then tap Messages.
If you already have a conversation going, tap the message thread. If not, tap Contacts on the top right, choose the contact.
Scroll to the bottom and tap the Microphone icon.
Tap the Microphone to start recording, then tap it again when you're done recording. The message automatically sends.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Messages and choose the device you want to message.
Tap and hold the Microphone icon to start recording, release when you are done. The message automatically sends.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View, choose the watch you want to change the list for, then tap the Settings gear..
Tap PRESET MESSAGES to view the current list of preset messages.
Tap + to add a new message or tap a message to edit it.
Enter a new message, then tap the Check Mark to save. To delete, tap DELETE PRESET MESSAGE > OK.

Tap the watch screen to bring up your apps, then tap Location.
Tap Send to send your location.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View and choose the desired watch at the top of the screen. You'll see it's location on the map.
Tap REFRESH LOCATION to instantly update the map with the watch's current location.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View and choose the desired watch at the top of the screen.
Tap the Settings gear, then tap Device Settings.
Tap the switch to turn Automatic Location Updates on or off.
Choose to update the location every 15, 30, 45, or 60 minutes.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View and choose the desired watch at the top of the screen. You will see a map with the watch's last location.
Tap ACTIVE TRACKING. The Watch will update it's location every 3 minutes for 15 minute. This mode reduces battery life.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap SafeZones.
Tap the + icon in the middle of the screen to create a new SafeZone.
Enter an address or select a location on the map, then give the location a name.
Choose the desired radius between 650 and 1960 ft.
Choose which watch to apply the SafeZone to.
Choose if you want the SafeZone enabled or disabled.
Tap the Check Mark at the top to save.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap SafeZones and choose the desire SafeZone.
Edit the SafeZone as desired, then tap the Check Mark to save. To delete, tap DELETE SAFEZONE > OK.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View and choose the desired watch at the top of the screen.
Tap the Settings gear, then tap SET ALARMS.
Tap the + icon to create a new alarm.
Enter the time for the alarm, the name of it, and which days of the week to repeat it on.
Choose the watches you want to have the alarm apply to.
Choose if you want to have the alarm enabled or disabled.
Tap the Check Mark at the top to save the alarm.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View and choose the desired watch at the top of the screen.
Tap the Settings gear, then tap SET ALARMS.
Tap the desired alarm.
Edit the desired information, then tap the Check Mark to save. To delete, tap DELETE ALARM > OK.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Daily Planner > Tasks & Rewards.
Tap the + icon to create a new task.
Choose the task icon, enter the task name, then tap NEXT.
Set the date and time for the task, then tap NEXT.
To add a reward, tap the switch to turn rewards on and choose the desired reward.
Choose a completion icon and tap NEXT.
Review the task/reward and choose which watch to apply it to, then tap SAVE.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Daily Planner > Tasks & Rewards.
Tap the desired task to review the information.
Tap DELETE > OK.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Daily Planner > School Mode.
Tap the + icon to create a new School Mode event, or tap an existing School Mode event to edit. You can have multiple events.
Set the start time, end time, days to repeat, and enter a name for the School Mode event.
Tap the Check Mark at the top to save. To delete, tap DELETE SCHOOL MODE > OK.

Tap the watch face to bring up your apps, then tap the Games icon.
Choose the game you want to play.

Tap the watch face to bring up your apps, then tap the Step Counter icon.
At the bottom, choose from Today or History.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Activity Center. You'll see a list of watches and how many steps.
Tap the drop-down at the top to change the view between Today, Week, and Month.

Tap the watch face to bring up your apps, then tap the Step Counter icon.
At the bottom, tap Today. Then tap the Settings gear.
Tap the switch next to Measure to turn the step counter on or off.
Tap the + or - icons to increase or decrease the goal.
Swipe right to save the settings and return to the previous screen.

Touch and hold the watch screen until you see the white dots at the bottom.
Swipe left or right to view all the watch faces.
Tap on the watch face you like the most!

Tap the watch screen to bring up your apps.
Swipe left, then tap Settings.
Swipe down and tap Watch Update.
Enter the last four digits of the IMEI number. It's found on the back of the watch or in the app under Map View: tap the watch > Settings gear > DEVICE SETTINGS.
Tap Yes and wait while the device updates. Follow any additional on-screen steps.

Press and hold the Power/Sleep button on the right of the watch. If the watch is off, it will turn on.
Tap YES on the "Do you want to shutdown your watch?" screen to turn it off.

Press and hold the Power/Sleep button on the right of the watch for at least 15 seconds.
Release when the watch vibrates and you see TIMEX.

In the app, tap the Hamburger icon with three lines.
Tap Map View and choose the desired watch at the top of the screen.
Tap the Settings gear, then tap DEVICE SETTINGS.
Tap Turn Device Off Remotely to turn it off. You can't turn it on remotely.

Tap the watch screen to bring up your apps.
Swipe left, then tap Settings.
Swipe down and tap and tap Factory Reset.
Enter Code (last 4 digits of IMEI), then tap YES.

Tap the watch screen to bring up your apps.
Swipe left, then tap Settings.
Swipe down and tap Bluetooth.
Tap the switch to turn Bluetooth on.
Tap Add Device or No Paired Devices, then tap SCAN.
Tap the desired device. If prompted, enter in the passcode.

Tap the watch screen to bring up your apps.
Swipe left, then tap Settings.
Swipe down and tap Bluetooth.
Tap the switch to turn Bluetooth on. A list of paired devices shows.
Tap the small white Bluetooth icon next to the device you want to unpair.
